PRYMNESSOS ΛΝΒ Mss'rnopoms {3⁶1

strange that such a natural fortress as Kara Hissar should
have been neglected, and the city built almost on the open
plain. lt must have been founded in a period when conve-
nience of situation was reckoned more important than natural
strength, and it is in accordance with all that we know of tho
early Phrygian racc that commercial rather than military
considerations should have directed their choice of sites. ln
the frontier wars of the Byzantine period ‚ the rock of Kara
Hissar became a central point and in course of time the city
that grew round it took the place of the older city on the
open plain.

The history of Colossai furnishes an apt parallel. lt was a
great commercia! city, built in the open plain on the great road
from Celainai to the coast. When the country became the
scene of constant ware, the strong citadel of Chonai was built
on a lofty and precipitous rock about two miles to the south,
and gradually the new city of Chonai supplanted the old Co·
lossai. The name Colossai appears in the lists of the Council
of Chalcedon (451 A. D.), of Hierocles (534 A. D.), of tho
Synod Quinisexta (692 A. D): but in Syn. Vll (787 Α. D.),
and all later authorities we find Κολόσσαι αἱ νῦν Χῶναι 01⁸
simply Χῶναι. Colossai therefore decayed in the Eighth Cen-
tury, when the Arab incursions made the whole of Asia Minor
unsafe.

No inscription hasbeen found to determine the name of the
ancient city at Surmeneh, but sufficient evidence remains to
prove that it was Metropolis. There were two cities of this
name in Phrygia, and it is not easy to distinguish between
them. One of them was in the southeast of Phrygia, and was
after 300 A. D. included in Pisidia. Hirschfeld has proved
that it was situated in the valley to the west of Apollonia
Mordiaion, now called Olouborlou ¹. The position of the other
Metropolis is uncertain, but the order of Hierocles places it
in this part of Phrygia3 he mentions it after Docimion and

¹ „ Reisebericht” in Berl. Monatsb. 1879.

 

